layout: post
title: '前端上手笔记'
date: 2017-05-17 15:50:37
categories: ui
---
## Javascript and ES6
### Arrow function expression
An arrow function expression has a shorter syntax than a function expression and does not bind its own this, arguments, super, or new.target. These function expressions are best suited for non-method functions, and they cannot be used as constructors.

Usage 1
```javascript
(param1, param2, …, paramN) => { statements }
(param1, param2, …, paramN) => expression
// equivalent to: (param1, param2, …, paramN) => { return expression; }

// Parentheses are optional when there's only one parameter name:
(singleParam) => { statements }
singleParam => { statements }

// A function with no parameters should be written with a couple of parentheses.
() => { statements }
```

Usage 2
```javascript
// Parenthesize the body of function to return an object literal expression:
params => ({foo: bar})

// Rest parameters and default parameters are supported
(param1, param2, ...rest) => { statements }
(param1 = defaultValue1, param2, …, paramN = defaultValueN) => { statements }

// Destructuring within the parameter list is also supported
let f = ([a, b] = [1, 2], {x: c} = {x: a + b}) => a + b + c;
f();  
// 6
```

Usage 3
```javascript
// ES5
var selected = allJobs.filter(function (job) {
  return job.isSelected();
});

// ES6
var selected = allJobs.filter(job => job.isSelected());
```

### Spread Syntax
假设你的可遍历对象中有一些元素（如数组），你想把这些元素应用于另一个新的数组或者一个函数调用。通常的做法，你会从索引开始，利用循环访问每个元素。但是通过 spread syntax 这个事情就变的很简单了，你可以使用三个点作为前缀，即 ... 应用于可遍历对象上，问题就解决了。
这里复制的是**引用**。也就是说如果一个数组中的元素发生改变，那么另一个数组中的元素也相应地发生改变。
Spread syntax 另一个用法是连接数组，做法是把你想要扩展的数组放到一起。

* For function calls: `myFunction(...iterableObj);`
* For array literals: `[...iterableObj, 4, 5, 6];`

Usage 1
```javascript
function myFunction(x, y, z) { }
var args = [0, 1, 2];
myFunction.apply(null, args);

// With spread syntax the above can be written as:
function myFunction(x, y, z) { }
var args = [0, 1, 2];
myFunction(...args);
```

Usage 2
```javascript
function myFunction(v, w, x, y, z) { }
var args = [0, 1];
myFunction(-1, ...args, 2, ...[3]);
```

Usage 3
```javascript
var parts = ['shoulders', 'knees'];
var lyrics = ['head', ...parts, 'and', 'toes'];
// ["head", "shoulders", "knees", "and", "toes"]
```

## React Component
* Components let you split the UI into independent, reusable pieces, and think about each piece in isolation
* React.Component is an abstract base class

To create your own component, subclass it and define at least a render() method.

Usage 1
```javascript
class Greeting extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}</h1>;
  }
}
```

### Immutability
There are generally two ways for changing data. The first method is to mutate the data by directly changing the values of a variable. The second method is to replace the data with a new copy of the object that also includes desired changes.

> By not mutating (or changing the underlying data) directly we now have an added benefit that can help us increase component and overall application performance.

**Easier Undo/Redo and Time Travel**
Immutability also makes some complex features much easier to implement. Avoiding data mutations lets us keep a reference to older versions of the data, and switch between them if we need to.

**Tracking Changes**
Determining if a mutated object has changed is complex because changes are made directly to the object. This then requires comparing the current object to a previous copy, traversing the entire object tree, and comparing each variable and value. This process can become increasingly complex.

**Determining When to Re-render in React**
The biggest benefit of immutability in React comes when you build simple pure components. Since immutable data can more easily determine if changes have been made it also helps to determine when a component requires being re-rendered.

### Lifecycle
* Mounting
  constructor, componentWillMount, render, componentDidMount
* Updating
  componentWillReceiveProps, shouldComponentUpdate, componentWillUpdate, render, componentDidUpdate
* Unmounting
  componentWillUnmount

### Function Description
* render()
  examines this.props and this.state and return a single React component
  does not modify state, and should be idempotent
  *does not interact with browser* (use componentDidMount or the other lifecycle method instead)
  will not be invoked if shouldComponentUpdate == false

### Embedding Expressions
* You can embed any JavaScript expression in JSX by wrapping it in curly braces.
```javascript
const element = (
  <h1>
    Hello, {formatName(user)}!
  </h1>
);
```

* Inline If with Logical && Operator
It works because in JavaScript, true && expression always evaluates to expression, and false && expression always evaluates to false.
Therefore, if the condition is true, the element right after && will appear in the output. If it is false, React will ignore and skip it.
```javascript
function Mailbox(props) {
  const unreadMessages = props.unreadMessages;
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello!</h1>
      {unreadMessages.length > 0 &&
        <h2>
          You have {unreadMessages.length} unread messages.
        </h2>
      }
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Redux
React 只是 DOM 的一个抽象层，并不是 Web 应用的完整解决方案。有两个方面，它没涉及:
> 代码结构
> 组件之间的通信

### Actions
* Describe the fact that sth. happened
* Payloads of information that send data from your application to your store
* Are plain javascript objects
* Must have `type` property [const string] that indicates the type of action being performed

```javascript
const ADD_TODO = 'ADD_TODO'
{
  type: ADD_TODO,
  text: 'Hello world'
}
```
Reference
  [Flux Standard Action](https://github.com/acdlite/flux-standard-action)

#### Action Creators
* Are functions that create actions

```javascript
function addTodo(text) {
  return {
    type: ADD_TODO,
    text: 'Hello world'
  }
}
```

To trigger a dispatch
```javascript
dispatch(addTodo(text))
```

### State
In redux, all the app state is stored as `a single object`.
The following sample stores two different things:
* The currently selected visibilityFilter
* The actual list of todos

```javascript
{
  visibilityFilter: 'SHOW_ALL',
  todos: [
    {
      text: 'Consider using Redux',
      completed: true,
    },
    {
      text: 'Keep all state in a single tree',
      completed: false
    }
  ]
}
```

### Reducers
* Specify how the app's state changes in response
* Are *pure* functions that take the previous state and an action, and return the next state

*Reducer must be pure. Given the same arguments, it should calculate the next state and return it. No surprises. No side effects. No API calls. No mutations. Just a calculation.*

DO NOT
* Mutate its arguments `Array.proptotypes.reduce(reducer, ?initialValue)`
* Perform API calls or routing transitions or other side effects
* Call non-pure functions, e.g. Date.now() or Math.random()

#### Handling Actions

```javascript
import { VisibilityFilters } from './actions'

const initialState = {
  visibilityFilter: VisibilityFilters.SHOW_ALL,
  todos: []
}

function todoApp(state = initialState, action) {
  switch (action.type) {
    case SET_VISIBILITY_FILTER:
      return Object.assign({}, state, {
        visibilityFilter: action.filter
      })
    default:
      return state
  }
}
```

> Object.assign(target, ...sources) copies the values (of all enumerable own properties) from one or more source objects to a target object.

### Store
* Is the object that brings actions and reducers together
* A single store in a Redux application

The store has the following responsibilities:
* Holds application state;
* Allows access to state via getState();
* Allows state to be updated via dispatch(action);
* Registers listeners via subscribe(listener);
* Handles unregistering of listeners via the function returned by subscribe(listener).

#### Dispatching Actions
```javascript
import { addTodo, toggleTodo, setVisibilityFilter, VisibilityFilters } from './actions'

// Log the initial state
console.log(store.getState())

// Every time the state changes, log it
// Note that subscribe() returns a function for unregistering the listener
let unsubscribe = store.subscribe(() =>
  console.log(store.getState())
)

// Dispatch some actions
store.dispatch(addTodo('Learn about actions'))
store.dispatch(addTodo('Learn about reducers'))
store.dispatch(addTodo('Learn about store'))
store.dispatch(toggleTodo(0))
store.dispatch(toggleTodo(1))
store.dispatch(setVisibilityFilter(VisibilityFilters.SHOW_COMPLETED))

// Stop listening to state updates
unsubscribe()
```

### Data Flow
* *You* call `store.dispatch(action)`
* *The Redux store* call the reducer function you gave it
* *The root reducer* may combine the output of multiple reducers into a single state tree
* *The Redux store* saves the complete state tree returned by the root reducer
